Gale Boetticher
Summary:







							Main
							
						



							2003
							
						



							2009
							
						

























Gale Boetticher

Portrayed by
David Costabile


Character information

Aliases
"Captain Nerd" ("I See You")"That crazy singing guy" ("Shotgun")


Status
Deceased


Age
34 (at time of death)


Date of birth
c. 1975


Date of death
May 22, 2009



Social life

Occupation
Chemist, manufacturer of crystal methamphetamine


Residence
Gale's Apartment (former)


Relationships
Walter White (lead chemist) † Gustavo Fring  (employer) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Sunset"
"Full Measure" (alive)"Box Cutter" (corpse)"Problem Dog" (flashback)






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Something Beautiful"
"Winner"






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (40)


"That crazy singing guy" ("Shotgun")
Gale Boetticher, B.S., M.S., was a German-American chemist hired by Gustavo Fring to help set up the superlab and manufacture methamphetamine. Gus Fring hired Walter White after Gale praised a sample of Walt's blue meth as the purest he'd ever seen. Following this point, Gale became Walt's lab assistant.

Gale holds an MS degree in organic chemistry and is a specialist in X-ray crystallography. He described his political views as libertarian, and had an open-minded attitude regarding meth. A self-described "nerd," Gale was single, vegan, apparently quite cultured, and was perhaps near to being an intellectual equal of Walt. As a side project, he was working on a process for brewing a superior cup of coffee, and impresses Walt with his results ("Sunset").

Despite Walt respecting and enjoying working with Gale, he was forced to fire him in order to prevent Jesse from filing a lawsuit against his brother-in-law Hank. Eventually after Walt murdered two of Gus' employees to protect Jesse, Gale would be reinstated as Walt's assistant. Nonetheless, Gus' true reasoning for this was to have Gale master Walt's cooking technique in order for Gale to take over the lab himself and have Walt murdered for killing his employees. However, in a desperate attempt to save their lives, Walt orders Jesse to murder Gale in order for them to be the only meth cooks capable of producing "Blue Sky" available to Fring, which Jesse reluctantly did by shooting Gale in the face.
