Gonzo
Summary:







"Gonzo" González

Portrayed by
Jesus Payan


Character information

Aliases
Gonzo


Status
Deceased


Date of death
October 31, 2008



Social life

Occupation
Juárez Cartel Lieutenant


Family
Tuco Salamanca (brother-in-law) †


Relationships
Tuco Salamanca (boss) †No-Doze (colleague) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"Seven Thirty-Seven"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Mijo"
"Mijo"






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (0)


"Gonzo" Gonzalez was Tuco Salamanca's brother-in-law and one of his lieutenants.

Gonzo and No-Doze were present when Tuco and Nacho dragged Jimmy, Cal and Lars out into the desert. After interrogating Jimmy, Gonzo is tasked with taking him back to the car, but Jimmy goes back to Tuco to convince him not to kill the twins ("Mijo").

Gonzo and No-Doze stood guard outside of Tuco's office. Jesse Pinkman and Skinny Pete arrived to arrange a deal with Tuco for a pound of crystal meth. Gonzo frisked Pete and found nothing, while No-Doze searched Jesse and found the pound on him. After No-Doze handed the pound back to Jesse, both he and Gonzo led Jesse and Pete to meet with Tuco. While Jesse tried to negotiate $35,000 for the pound, Tuco instead made clear that their arrangement was going to involve split profits. Jesse tried to steal back the meth and run, but Gonzo and No-Doze caught him and took him back to his seat. Tuco then proceeded to beat Jesse with a bag of money and remind him that he was the only one allowed to deal crystal in the South Valley.

Later, Walter White came to the office to meet with Tuco. After No-Doze roughly frisked Walt and found a pound of what appeared to be meth on him, he handed it to Gonzo, who in turn gave it to Tuco. While Tuco looked over the pound, Gonzo and No-Doze led Walt into his office to meet him. Introducing himself as Heisenberg, Walt demanded $50,000 from Tuco, who simply laughed him off and mockingly described Walt's plan as "brilliant". Gonzo echoed this sentiment. Walt however, quickly proved them wrong and picked up a piece of the "meth", asserting that it was not meth at all before throwing it to the floor and causing a large explosion in the office. While Tuco, Gonzo, and No-Doze were all reeling from the shock, Walt grabbed the bag of what turned out to be mercury fulminate and threatened the trio with it. Gonzo unholstered his Beretta 92FS, but Tuco ordered him to calm down. Tuco then gave Walt his money and the two arranged a deal for two more pounds of crystal the next week before Walt left the ransacked office ("Crazy Handful of Nothin'")
