Gretchen Schwartz
Summary:




			Main
			
		
			1985
			
		
			2008
			
		
			2010
			
		






























Gretchen Schwartz

Portrayed by
Jessica Hecht


Character information

Full name
Gretchen Schwartz


Status
Alive



Social life

Occupation
Co-owner of Gray Matter


Residence
Schwartz Residence (former)Schwartz Residence, Tesuque


Family
Elliott Schwartz (husband)


Relationships
Walter White (former colleague and boyfriend) †Juana (maid)George (friend)Delores (friend)Bill Cohen (friend)Miriam Cohen (friend)




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"...and the Bag's in the River"
"Felina"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




——
——






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (25)


Gretchen Schwartz is Walter White's old college chemistry lab partner and now co-owner of Gray Matter Technologies, a successful pharmaceutical company. A former romantic interest of Walt's, she is currently married to Elliott Schwartz, with whom she also manages Gray Matter.

Gretchen was born into a wealthy family and at one point began working for Walter White as his lab assistant at his and his best friend Elliot Schwartz's company Gray Matter Technologies. She and Walt eventually sparked a romance, fell deeply in love and were at one point engaged. However, after introducing Walt to her family at their home on a Fourth of July weekend, he abruptly left her without any explanation due to feelings of inferiority that her family's wealth and status stirred up in him. After this, Walt sold his share of Gray Matter to Elliot for $5,000 and left the company.

Following this, Elliot and Gretchen began dating, eventually married and co-owned Gray Matter together, becoming multi-billionaires. Although he remained friendly with both of them, Walter would secretly blame Elliot and Gretchen for his eventual financial problems. He accused them of cutting him out of Gray Matter and stealing his research without crediting him, completely ignoring the fact that he chose to leave himself. He also blamed Gretchen for ending their once strong relationship.

Gretchen was introduced via a flashback. As Walt and Jesse Pinkman are cleaning up the liquefied remains of Emilio Koyama's corpse, Walt reflects to a moment back in his college days where he and Gretchen, alone in a dimly-lit classroom, attempt to inventory the chemical makeup of the human body with exact percentages. When their total falls 0.111958% short of 100%, Gretchen posits the possibility of a soul ("...and the Bag's in the River").
