Gustavo Fring
Summary:
Gustavo Fring is a fictional character from the crime drama series Breaking Bad and its prequel Better Call Saul, portrayed by Giancarlo Esposito. He is a Chilean-American major methamphetamine distributor in the Southwestern United States who uses several legitimate businesses, including a chain of successful fried chicken restaurants called Los Pollos Hermanos and an industrial laundry facility called Lavanderia Brillante, as fronts for a vast drug operation. Fring maintains a positive public image: he is a booster for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), having befriended the special agent in charge, and makes large donations to the Albuquerque office's civic and charitable events. Underneath this front, he is ruthless, cruel, and Machiavellian in managing his vast drug empire. He employs a number of enforcers and has personally killed both rivals and allies alike.[1]

Gustavo Fring is the owner of a chain of fast-food fried chicken restaurants called Los Pollos Hermanos (The Chicken Brothers), located across the southwestern United States, with his flagship restaurant in Albuquerque and the firm's chicken farm and distribution center at the outskirts of the city. The company is a subsidiary of Madrigal Electromotive GmbH, a multinational company based in Germany which has ownership stakes in multiple subsidiaries. While his restaurant chain is a legitimate business, it serves as a front for Gus to distribute methamphetamine and cocaine for a Mexican cartel, co-conspiring with two Madrigal executives: a German man named Peter Schuler and an American woman named Lydia Rodarte-Quayle.

The Breaking Bad episode "Hermanos" shows that Gus and his long-time partner Max Arciniega started Los Pollos Hermanos as a front to sell methamphetamine that Max "cooked". They approached Don Eladio Vuente, the leader of the cartel, with an offer to expand their drug trade with cartel help; Eladio declined, as the cartel preferred to continue distributing cocaine. Instead, Eladio had Hector Salamanca kill Max for selling meth in cartel territory without permission. Eladio spared Gus, but forced him to co-operate with the cartel on Eladio's terms.[2] For the next 20 years, Gus remains outwardly loyal to the cartel but nurses a grudge against Eladio and Hector, waiting for his chance at revenge. After establishing himself in Albuquerque, Gus secretly looks to end his dependency on cartel cocaine by producing and distributing meth in the United States. Because the Salamanca family drug business controlled by Hector also includes Albuquerque, Gus is forced to deal with him but seeks to undermine the Salamancas.

Gus has a mysterious background; even his name is established as an alias, since neither the DEA nor his own enforcer Mike Ehrmantraut could find any record of him prior to his arrival in Mexico. He is supposedly a native of Chile, and is sometimes referred to by cartel members as "The Chilean". In the Better Call Saul episode "Piñata", he tells a comatose Hector a story about a coati that ate the fruit from a lúcuma tree to which he tended during his childhood in Chile. In the Better Call Saul episode "Magic Man", Lalo Salamanca refers to a mysterious incident involving Gus which took place in Santiago. Gus immigrated to Mexico in the 1980s during the Chilean dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet,[2] and in a flashback during the Breaking Bad episode "One Minute", Hector mockingly refers to him as "Grand Generalissimo", implying that Gus had a connection to the Pinochet regime.[3] As mentioned in the Better Call Saul episode "JMM", Gus and Madrigal executive Peter had a shared experience in Santiago, which Gus mentions to Peter to calm him down when he panics over Lalo's attacks on Gus' business. In "Hermanos", Eladio says that when he ordered Max killed, he spared Gus because of his unstated but apparently powerful connection to Chile.[2]

Gus and Max's relationship is implied to be more than business. In the Better Call Saul episode "Sabrosito", Hector suggests that Gus and Max, "The Chicken Brothers", might be better referred to as "The Butt Brothers", insinuating that they are gay. In "Magic Man", Lalo discusses Gus with Juan Bolsa and refers to Max as Gus' boyfriend.[4] As shown in the Better Call Saul episode "Dedicado a Max", after arriving in Albuquerque, Gus acquired a small villa on the Mexican side of the Mexico-U.S. border. The villa serves as the residence for Dr. Barry Goodman, and contains a fountain which is dedicated to Max.[5] Vince Gilligan has stated that he purposely left Gus' origins ambiguous, comparing them to the briefcase in Pulp Fiction.[6] He also left it ambiguous as to whether Gus and Max were lovers, but stated, "I personally think Max was more than just a friend to Gus. I think they probably were lovers."[7]

Quotes:
When you have children, you always have family. They will always be your priority, your responsibility. And a man, a man provides. And he does it even when he's not appreciated or respected or even loved. He simply bears up and he does it. Because he's a man.
May his death satisfy you.