Hector Salamanca
Summary:







							Main
							
						



							1986
							
						



							1989
							
						



							1999
							
						



							2002
							
						



							2004
							
						



							2008
							
						



							2009
							
						




























































Hector Salamanca

Portrayed by
Mark Margolis


Character information

Aliases
Tío (meaning "uncle")Don Hector


Status
Deceased


Age
70s


Date of death
July 15, 2009



Social life

Occupation
Former senior Juárez Cartel member


Residence
Casa Tranquila (later life)Hector's House


Family
Abuelita (mother)Tuco Salamanca (nephew) †Marco and Leonel Salamanca (nephews) †Lalo Salamanca (nephew)Joaquin Salamanca (grandson) †


Relationships
Don Eladio (cartel associate) †Juan Bolsa (cartel associate) †Arturo (former lieutenant) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Grilled"
"Face Off"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Rebecca"
——






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (87) / Videos (1)


Hector's House
Hector Salamanca (referred to as Tío by his nephews) was a drug runner and the former right hand man and enforcer of Don Eladio. Hector was a high-ranking member of the Juárez Cartel, the patriarch of the Salamanca family, and was feared among most in the South. He was the son of Abuelita, the uncle of Tuco, Marco, Leonel and Lalo Salamanca, as well as the grandfather of Joaquin Salamanca. He was the archenemy of Albuquerque-based drug kingpin Gustavo Fring. This long-standing feud stemmed back to 1989 when Hector killed Fring's partner Maximino Arciniega. Subsequently, the Chilean embarked upon a secretive and relentless path of sabotage and revenge against Hector which would span 20 years. 

A ruthless and cruel drug lord, Hector was blindly loyal to the Cartel and was a key man for its operations north of the border until he was rendered disabled by a stroke caused by his underling Nacho Varga. He later became an adversary to Walter White due to his involvement in the death of Tuco, later dispatching his nephews Marco and Leonel to kill Walt. 

Hector became the last surviving high ranking member of the Cartel after it was destroyed by Fring in order to end their interference in his own operation and for revenge for the murder of Max. Gus also personally played a hand in the deaths of a majority of Hector's family members as a part of his revenge, eventually leaving Hector as the last surviving member of his family. However, he was finally able to avenge his loved ones and get his revenge against Gus with the help of Walt, who helped Hector lure Gus into a trap and suicide bomb him, killing himself, Tyrus Kitt and Gus.
