Huell Babineaux
Summary:







							Main
							
						



							2003
							
						



							2004
							
						



							2009
							
						



							2010
							
						







































Huell Babineaux

Portrayed by
Lavell Crawford


Character information

Status
Alive


Age
35 (Better Call Saul)41 (Breaking Bad)


Date of birth
March 20, 1968 ("Coushatta")



Social life

Occupation
Bodyguard, Saul Goodman & Associates (former)


Relationships
Saul Goodman (former employer)Patrick Kuby (colleague)Francesca Liddy (colleague)Clarence (colleague)




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Box Cutter"
"To'hajiilee"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Chicanery"
——






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (31) / Videos (2)


Huell Babineaux is Saul Goodman's former personal bodyguard. He provides a variety of services to Saul, including personal protection, intimidation and pick-pocketing.

Huell's arrest report gives conflicting evidence as to his birthplace. It specifically lists "New Mexico" as his birthplace, however gives him a social security number beginning in 331, which is issued to those born in Illinois. ("Coushatta")

He is from the town of Coushatta, Louisiana and at some point before 2001, he moved to Albuquerque, New Mexico, where he became connected with Caldera, a veterinarian with underworld contacts. In 2001, Huell was arrested for pickpocketing. In "Something Stupid", the cop who is assaulted by Huell says that he arrested him three years ago.

Caldera puts Jimmy McGill in touch with Huell. Jimmy instructs him to slip the fully-charged battery from his cell phone into the breast pocket of his brother Chuck. Jimmy reveals this over an hour later in court, proving that Chuck's purported electromagnetic hypersensitivity is not real. The ruse causes Chuck to rant against Jimmy in front of the New Mexico Bar Association, making it clear he's desperate to get his brother disbarred. ("Chicanery")
