Jesse Pinkman
Summary:




			Main
			
		
			2008
			
		
			2009
			
		
			2010
			
		
			El Camino
			
		





































Jesse Pinkman

Portrayed by
Aaron Paul


Character information

Full name
Jesse Bruce Pinkman


Aliases
Cap'n Cook ("Pilot")Diesel ("Peekaboo")Captain America ("Down")Jesse Jackson ("Breakage")Timmy Dipshit ("To'hajiilee")Mr. Driscoll ("El Camino")


Status
Alive


Age
25 ("Felina")


Date of birth
September 24, 1984



Social life

Occupation
Methamphetamine manufacturer & distributor (former)


Residence
Pinkman Residence (former)Jesse's HouseJane's Apartment (former)Schrader Residence (temporary, former)Jack Welker's Compound (held prisoner, former)  Skinny Pete's House (temporary, former) Haines, Alaska


Family
Adam Pinkman (father)Diane Pinkman (mother)Jake Pinkman (brother)Ginny (aunt) †


Relationships
Walter White (former chemistry teacher, former meth cook partner, former business partner) †Emilio Koyama (former meth cook partner) †Unknown woman (former lover)Wendy (former lover)Jane Margolis (former girlfriend) †Andrea Cantillo (ex-girlfriend) †Badger (friend)Skinny Pete (friend)Combo (friend) †Paul Tyree (friend)Mike Ehrmantraut (former business partner) †Hank Schrader (former partner in tracking down Walt) †Steven Gomez (former partner in tracking down Walt) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Pilot"
"Felina"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




——
——






Appearance in El Camino


✔ Yes




Images (734)


Jesse Bruce Pinkman is the former partner of Walter White in the methamphetamine drug trade. Jesse was a small-time methamphetamine user, manufacturer, and dealer. He was also an inattentive student in Walter White's chemistry class, but was still able to graduate. In his mid-20s, Jesse became Walt's business partner in the meth trade. Before his partnership with Walt, he, operating under the pseudonym "Cap'n Cook", added a little Chili powder to make his methamphetamine stand out in the market.

Walt insisted on making a pure product, however, and thus eschewed the chili powder altogether, patronizingly teaching Jesse how to make "proper" meth. Walt often treated Jesse like a foolish son in constant need of stern correction. Jesse's own family kicked him out because of his drug use. Despite the friction between them, he and Walt have a deep bond of loyalty. Like Walt, Jesse is horrified by the brutality at the higher levels of the drug trade, but does what he thinks is necessary. He wrestles with feelings of guilt about the deaths, all drug-related, of people he's been associated with, especially his girlfriend Jane Margolis. He often attended Narcotics Anonymous meetings to help deal with these feelings.

Later on in the series, Jesse's loyalty to Walter erodes upon learning from Saul that Walt tricked him into helping him bring down Gustavo Fring by poisoning his girlfriend's son, Brock. As a result, he teams up with Hank Schrader, Walt's DEA brother-in-law, to bring Walt down. They were almost successful, but were stopped by Jack Welker's Gang before Hank could make the arrest.

After Hank was killed by Jack, Jesse was taken prisoner by the gang and forced into labor as a meth-cook slave, which Jesse complied with for the sake of his ex-girlfriend Andrea and her son Brock, even though the former was killed after Jesse had tried to escape. After Walt massacred Jack's gang, Jesse killed Todd Alquist in revenge. After Walt freed him, Jesse drove away from the compound, mentally and emotionally broken from the events that occurred throughout the course of his life.
