Lydia Rodarte-Quayle
Summary:




			Main
			
		
			2003
			
		
			2004
			
		
			2009
			
		
			2010
			
		





































Lydia Rodarte-Quayle

Portrayed by
Laura Fraser


Character information

Status
Deceased


Age
Early to Mid 30's


Date of death
Shortly after September 8, 2010



Social life

Occupation
Executive at Madrigal Electromotive GmbH's Houston office


Residence
Lydia's House, Houston, TX


Family
Kiira Rodarte-Quayle (daughter)


Relationships
Gustavo Fring (business associate) †Peter Schuler (Madrigal superior) †Chris Mara (Hitman) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Madrigal"
"Felina"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Off Brand"
——






Appearance in El Camino


✔ Mentioned




Images (57)


Lydia Rodarte-Quayle was the Head of Logistics at Madrigal Electromotive GmbH, and was based at their office in Houston, Texas. She supplied methylamine to Gustavo Fring prior to the collapse of Gus' Drug Empire, and later aligned herself with Walt's Drug Empire and eventually with Jack Welker's Gang. She was also a single mother, raising a young daughter named Kiira Rodarte-Quayle. 

After Gus' death, Lydia asks Mike Ehrmantraut to eliminate any loose ends that might connect her to the world of organized crime. When Mike refuses, she hires someone else to kill Mike and Gus' other associates. Mike outmaneuvers the hitman, and nearly kills Lydia for her deception. At the last minute, he offers clemency on the condition that she supplies methylamine to Walt's new meth operation.

When a GPS tracking device is discovered on the barrel of methylamine that Lydia planned to give Jesse, Mike suspects Lydia is working with the DEA. He insists to Walt and Jesse that she needs to be killed, until they discover that the DEA secretly planted tracking devices on every methylamine barrel in the Madrigal warehouse. Since her supply is now compromised, Lydia tries to regain her value before the guys decide to kill her anyway. She tells Walt about a train carrying a huge amount of methylamine through New Mexico, and helps them plan the perfect robbery.

After Walt kills Mike, he obtains the names of Gus' imprisoned associates from Lydia and has them killed. Knowing that she's next on the chopping block, Lydia finds another way to become invaluable to Walt: she becomes his business partner, expanding his meth empire to Europe. Business thrives for months, until Walt decides to quit. Lydia then helped Jack Welker's Gang improve the quality of their meth. After deciding to kill everyone who betrayed him, Walt fatally poisoned Lydia with ricin. News reports shortly thereafter revealed Lydia to be under investigation for her ties to Walter White and to not be expected to survive her poisoning.
