Marie Schrader
Summary:




			Main
			
		
			2008
			
		
			2009
			
		
			2010
			
		






























Marie Schrader

Portrayed by
Betsy Brandt


Character information

Full name
Marie Schrader (née Lambert)


Aliases
Tori Costner Charlotte Blattner Mimi


Status
Alive


Age
Late 30's



Social life

Occupation
Radiologic Technician at Kleinman Radiology Center


Residence
Schrader Residence


Family
Hank Schrader (husband) †Skyler White (sister)Walter White (brother-in-law) †Walter White Jr. (nephew)Holly White (niece)


Relationships
Dave (therapist)




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Pilot"
"Felina"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




——
——






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (82)


Marie Schrader (née Lambert) is Skyler White's sister, the widow of DEA agent Hank Schrader, and the sister-in-law of Walter White. Marie is close with her sister, though her tendency to pry invariably irritates Skyler. Marie works as a radiologic technologist at Kleinman Radiology Center, a medical scanning and X-ray office. She loves the color purple, and nearly all her household and clothing items are various shades of purple.

Marie becomes a major source of comfort and support to her husband, who proves to be more emotionally fragile than he lets on. After Hank is shot and nearly killed by The Cousins, Marie arranges, with Walt and Skyler's help, for Hank to undergo an aggressive physical therapy program that is not covered by their insurance. Despite a rough patch in their relationship as Hank recovers, their marriage becomes loving again when Hank begins making progress with the Heisenberg case and she becomes stable enough to care emotionally for her family members.

When Walt and Skyler begin to visibly have marriage problems, she volunteers to house the kids for a couple of days while they work things out. After Marie finds out from Hank that Walt is Heisenberg, she supports Hank in his attempt to get Walt sent down. However, through tragic circumstances, Hank is shot dead by Jack Welker, leaving Marie devastated when Walt reveals his death to her and the family.

Little is known about Marie's early life. The only member of her immediate family that is known is her older sister Skyler. Their parents are never mentioned throughout the series, indicating the sisters are either estranged from them or both are deceased. Marie met Hank in high school and eventually went out with him after he repeatedly asked her out. She eventually began working as a radiologic technician at Kleinman Radiology center and later married Hank.
