Mike Ehrmantraut
Summary:







							Main
							
						



							2002
							
						



							2003
							
						



							2004
							
						



							2009
							
						







































Mike Ehrmantraut

Portrayed by
Jonathan Banks


Character information

Full name
Michael Ehrmantraut


Aliases
Uncle FesterPop PopDave ClarkeBarry Hedberg


Status
Deceased


Age
60-64 ("Uno")65-69 ("Say My Name")


Date of birth
1940-1944


Date of death
October 2, 2009



Social life

Occupation
Private Investigator, former Philadelphia beat cop, worker at ticket booth, Head of Los Pollos Corporate Security, hitman, cleaner


Residence
Mike's House


Family
Unnamed wifeMatt Ehrmantraut (son) †Stacey Ehrmantraut (daughter-in-law)Kaylee Ehrmantraut (granddaughter)


Relationships
Saul Goodman (former part-time boss)Gustavo Fring (former employer) †Walter White (former business partner) †Jesse Pinkman (former business partner)Victor (former fellow enforcer) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"ABQ"
"Say My Name" (alive) "Gliding Over All" (corpse)






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Uno"
——






Appearance in El Camino


✔ Yes




Images (417) / Videos (8)


Michael "Mike" Ehrmantraut was a former corrupt police officer who, after being forced to leave the police department, used his connections in the criminal underworld to eventually become Gustavo Fring's right-hand man. Despite his responsibilities as the second-in-command of the mob, he occasionally carried out favors for his lawyer and old associate Saul Goodman as a private investigator, cleaner, and fixer, out of loyalty to Saul (they had known each other for six years). Mike was a calm and calculating individual who efficiently performed his duties for Gus, and he was the glue that held the Albuquerque Mafia together. He had extensive knowledge of how to operate on both sides of the law without detection. Prior to his involvement in Gus' operation, Mike worked as parking ticket booth operator at a local courthouse, where he met Saul, then known as Jimmy McGill.

As a former beat cop and true professional, he maintained an extensive, up-to-date knowledge of forensic evidence, surveillance equipment, and police procedure. Mike was also well trained and calm in all types of combat situations, once using science and long strategy to take down a large number of hostiles with ease. Mike had one son, Matt, who also became a police officer. Matt married Stacey and they had a daughter, Kaylee. Matt was approached by two corrupt officers and asked Mike for advice; Mike advised Matt that not taking the money would label him a whistleblower, and endanger his life and family, so Matt took it. Matt's partner and another officer killed Matt because his hesitation caused them to think he might turn them in. Stacey and Kaylee left Philadelphia for Albuquerque after Matt's funeral. Mike identified the officers who killed Matt and arranged a similar ambush to kill both of them, after which he left for Albuquerque, allowing him to see Stacey and Kaylee. 

A rough and rocky relationship between the young drug dealer Jesse Pinkman and Mike began, and although initially frustrated at Gus choosing to go into business with Jesse against his advice, he learned to respect him. However, Mike did not like Jesse's partner Walter White in the least, considering him to be selfish, arrogant, and egotistical and nearly killed him on Gus' orders for killing two of his dealers although the death of Gale Boetticher prevented this. He later assisted Gus in turning Jesse against Walt by giving Jesse more responsibilities and respect. 

Following the assassination of Gus and the subsequent destruction of his empire as a result of Walt's actions, Mike, along with a majority of his fellow empire operatives would be exposed to the DEA and have their offshore assets seized, with Mike only narrowly avoiding arrest for never having directly touched his money set up in his granddaughters name. He later temporarily becomes a reluctant partner in Walt and Jesse's meth operation in order to provide the hazard pay for his incarcerated men in prison to keep their families financially sound and prevent them from making deals with law enforcement. He eventually chose to retire from Walt's operation due to persistent law enforcement surveillance of him and tried to dismantle Walt's drug operation by selling 1000 gallons of stolen methlaymine to his Arizona contact Declan. Walt however blocked the deal and Mike received a $5 million buyout payment from Declan after Walt made a deal with him.
