No-Doze
Summary:







No-Doze

Portrayed by
Cesar Garcia


Character information

Aliases
No-Doze


Status
Deceased


Date of death
October 31, 2008



Social life

Occupation
Juárez Cartel Lieutenant


Relationships
Tuco Salamanca (employer) †Gonzo (colleague) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"Seven Thirty-Seven"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Mijo"
"Mijo"






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (20)


No-Doze was one of Tuco Salamanca's head lieutenants in his drug organization.

No-Doze and Gonzo were present when Tuco dragged Jimmy, Cal and Lars out into the desert. Jimmy, pleading for Tuco to spare Cal and Lars, requested that they only be given black eyes. Tuco laughed it off and said that would be too easy. No-Doze remarked that they already had black eyes (as Tuco had knocked the two teens out with a cane). Tuco coldly stared at him and asked him to stop helping him ("Mijo").

No-Doze and Gonzo stood guard outside of Tuco's office. Jesse Pinkman and Skinny Pete arrived to arrange a deal with Tuco for a pound of crystal meth. While Gonzo frisked Pete, No-Doze searched Jesse and found the pound on him. He then handed it back to him and along with Gonzo, led them to meet Tuco. While Jesse tried to negotiate $35,000 for the pound, Tuco instead made clear that their arrangement was going to involve split profits. Jesse tried to steal back the meth and run, but No-Doze and Gonzo caught him and took him back to his seat. Tuco then proceeded to beat Jesse with a bag of money before reminding him that he was the only one allowed to deal crystal in the South Valley.

Later, Walter White came to the office to meet with Tuco. No-Doze roughly frisked him and took Walt's pound of what appeared to also be meth, which he handed to Gonzo, who gave it to Tuco. While Tuco looked over the pound, No-Doze and Gonzo led Walt into his office to meet him. Introducing himself as Heisenberg, Walt proceeded to demand $50,000 from Tuco, who simply laughed him off. Walt then took a piece of the "meth" and asserted that it was not meth at all before throwing it to the floor and causing a large explosion in the office. While Tuco, No-Doze, and Gonzo were all reeling from the shock, Walt grabbed the bag of what turned out to be mercury fulminate and threatened the trio with it. No-Doze pointed his .357 revolver at Walt, but Tuco ordered him to calm down. Tuco then gave Walt his money and the two arranged a deal for two more pounds of crystal the next week before Walt left the ransacked office ("Crazy Handful of Nothin'").
