Saul Goodman
Summary:







							Main
							
						



							1965
							
						



							1973
							
						



							1992
							
						



							1998
							
						



							2001
							
						



							2002
							
						



							2003
							
						



							2004
							
						



							2008
							
						



							2009
							
						



							2010
							
						



							2010s
							
						































































































James McGill

Portrayed by
Bob OdenkirkBlake Bertrand (young Jimmy)Cole Whitaker (young Jimmy)


Character information

Full name
James Morgan McGill


Aliases
Slippin' JimmySaul GoodmanGene TakavicThe LawyerViktor St. ClaireCharlie HustleKevin CostnerMr. Cumpston


Status
Alive


Age
41 ("Uno")48 ("Better Call Saul")49 ("Granite State")Early to late 50s (Season Premieres)


Date of birth
November 12, 1960



Social life

Occupation
Con artist (former)Mailroom clerk at Hamlin, Hamlin & McGill (former)Public Defense Attorney (former)Independent elder law attorney (former)Associate attorney, Davis & Main (former)Elder law attorney, Wexler McGill (former)Cell phone salesman, CC Mobile (former)Criminal defense attorney, Saul Goodman & Associates (former)Manager, Ice Station Zebra Associates (former)Cinnabon manager


Residence
Day Spa and Nail (former)Jimmy's Davis & Main Residence (former)Kim's Apartment (former)Gene's Home


Family
Chuck McGill (brother) †Ruth McGill (mother) †Charles McGill Sr. (father) †  Unnamed stepfather Unnamed first wifeUnnamed second wifeKim Wexler (third wife) Mrs. Wexler (mother-in-law)Rebecca Bois (former sister-in-law)


Relationships
Marco Pasternak (fellow con artist) †Mike Ehrmantraut (cleaner and private investigator) †Huell Babineaux (former bodyguard)Patrick Kuby (henchman)Francesca Liddy (former secretary)Ernesto (friend and former colleague)




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Better Call Saul"
"Granite State"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Uno"
——






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (749) / Videos (14)


James Morgan "Jimmy" McGill, better known by his professional alias Saul Goodman, ("Magic Man") is the former principal attorney of Saul Goodman & Associates and the husband of Kim Wexler. He operated out of a cheap strip mall office and ran over-the-top late night TV commercials advising potential clients that they'd "Better Call Saul" when in trouble with the law. Despite his ads seeming tacky and cheap, Saul was an effective lawyer, using illegal tactics and dirty schemes to get his clients released or acquitted. 

Saul was born in Cicero, Illinois on November 12, 1960 as James Morgan "Jimmy" McGill. His older brother, Chuck, became a successful lawyer as one of the name partners at an Albuquerque law firm, Hamlin, Hamlin & McGill. Jimmy became a scam artist in Cicero and soon gained the nickname "Slippin' Jimmy" for staging "slip and fall" accidents to make quick cash. Jimmy eventually runs into trouble with the police and Chuck returns to help, but only on the condition that Jimmy joins him in Albuquerque and works a legitimate job in HHM's mailroom. There, Jimmy befriends Kim Wexler, an HHM employee who is attending law school. Inspired by her success, Jimmy completes his college degree and attends a correspondence law school. He passes the bar exam and hopes to be hired at HHM, but at Chuck's secret instigation, senior partner Howard Hamlin denies Jimmy the opportunity. Jimmy then starts a solo practice in the utility room of a Vietnamese nail salon. He takes whatever cases he can get his hands on, including low paid public defender work. Jimmy frequently gets into altercations with the stoic Mike Ehrmantraut, a former Philadelphia police officer working the tollbooth at the courthouse's parking lot.

Jimmy begins to use the alias "Saul Goodman", a play on the phrase "(It)'s all good, man". He initially uses it as the alternate identity for the high-energy pitchman in TV ads he produces during the suspension of his law license, and later when he begins a business reselling prepaid cell phones on the street. Several years later, he becomes the lawyer and advisor for meth cooks Walter White and Jesse Pinkman, getting them out of several difficult situations. Often dressed in flashy suits, Saul boasts extensive connections within Albuquerque's criminal underworld, and serves as a go-between connecting drug distributors, evidence removers, impersonators, and other criminals-for-hire. He arranges for Walt to launder drug money through Walter White Jr.'s website and dispatches Mike to coach Jesse and dispose of any incriminating evidence in his apartment after his girlfriend Jane overdoses.

Saul became a trusted consigliere to Walt, helping launder drug money for Walt and, later, his wife Skyler. Saul expanded Walt's profits by arranging for the latter to supply crystal meth in bulk to Albuquerque drug dealers via Mike, who was himself consigliere to local kingpin Gustavo Fring. Eventually, however, Walt's criminal secrets were discovered by his brother-in-law, DEA agent Hank Schrader, and despite attempts to protect him from arrest and Jesse's wrath after discovering Walt's poisoning of Brock, Saul was forced to abandon his life as a criminal lawyer. With the help of the criminal extractor Ed Galbraith, Saul fled to Omaha, Nebraska, and began a new life as Gene Takavic, the manager of a Cinnabon restaurant, living in constant fear of exposure and arrest, as well as regret over losing his past life.
