Skyler White
Summary:
Skyler White (née Lambert)[1] is a fictional character in Breaking Bad, portrayed by Anna Gunn. For her performance, Gunn received widespread critical acclaim, with some critics even lauding her character as the template for television anti-heroines. Gunn's portrayal won two consecutive Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2013 and 2014. In 2014, her performance in the episode "Ozymandias" was named as one of the best performances on television on various critics' lists. She also won the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2014.

Over the years, Skyler has had several meager sources of income: working as a bookkeeper for the Albuquerque firm Beneke Fabricators, writing short stories and selling items on eBay. She and her husband, Walter White (Bryan Cranston), have a son, Walt Jr. (RJ Mitte), who has cerebral palsy, and an infant daughter, Holly (Elanor Anne Wenrich). Her sister, Marie (Betsy Brandt), is married to a DEA agent, Hank Schrader (Dean Norris). Skyler is approximately 11 years younger than Walt, whom she met when she was a hostess at a diner near Walt's former place of work, near the Los Alamos National Laboratory.

Skyler is in the middle stages of pregnancy with Holly at the beginning of the show. When Walt is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, he initially does not tell his family. When Skyler learns about the diagnosis, she is both devastated by the news and outraged that Walt withheld the information. Their relationship becomes strained, both from Walt's reluctance to seek treatment and from his unexplained absences following his diagnosis. Skyler figures out Walt's connection to his former student, Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), and confronts Jesse at his house. When she confronts Walt, he claims that Jesse is his marijuana dealer. Unbeknownst to Skyler, Walt has taken up cooking methamphetamine with Jesse in order to ensure his family's financial security after he dies.

Skyler faces other problems as well. When Marie offers an expensive white gold tiara as a gift for Holly's baby shower, Skyler attempts to return it to the jewelry store, only to learn that her sister, a kleptomaniac, had stolen the item. Skyler is detained by the store's owner and escapes arrest only after faking labor pains. The incident causes serious problems in Skyler's relationship with Marie, who emphatically denies that she has done anything wrong.

When Walt is kidnapped by Mexican drug kingpin Tuco Salamanca (Raymond Cruz), his family, unaware of the connection to Walt's criminal activities, organizes a search for him as a missing person. When Walt escapes, he fakes a "fugue state", claiming to have no memory of the last few days. The marriage continues going downhill thanks to Walt's continued absences, devolving to the point where Skyler refuses to speak to him. Skyler is also perturbed by Walt's resistance to his son's efforts to raise money for Walt's cancer treatments, unaware that most of the donations actually constitute drug money laundered by Walt's corrupt lawyer, Saul Goodman (Bob Odenkirk).

Quotes:
All I can do is wait... for the cancer to come back.