Stacey Ehrmantraut
Summary:







							Main
							
						



							2002
							
						



							2009
							
						

























Stacey Ehrmantraut

Portrayed by
Unknown actress (Breaking Bad)Kerry Condon (Better Call Saul)


Character information

Status
Alive



Social life

Occupation
Nursing/medicine (possible, seen wearing scrubs)


Residence
Stacey's first House (former)Stacey's second House


Family
Matt Ehrmantraut (husband) †Kaylee Ehrmantraut (daughter)Mike Ehrmantraut (father-in-law) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Full Measure"
"Full Measure"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Alpine Shepherd Boy"
"JMM"






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (21)

Stacey Ehrmantraut is Matt Ehrmantraut's widow and the mother of their only child, Kaylee Ehrmantraut.

She was married to Matt for an unknown period of time, and also had a good relationship with Matt's father, Mike Ehrmantraut. Matt was killed after working for two years as a police officer in Philadelphia, Stacey then moved to Albuquerque, New Mexico.

When Stacey exits her house and starts to drive, she notices Mike. As she drives by Mike, she slows, the two lock eyes, but neither says a word. Stacey then drives off. ("Alpine Shepherd Boy")

In a flashback, Stacey asks Mike how long he’s planning to be in town, Mike tells her that he going to stay indefinitely, to help out her and Kaylee. Finally, she brings up what’s bothering her: She overheard Matt—her husband, Mike’s son—having a heated late-night phone conversation just a few days before he was killed. When she asks Mike if he was on the other end of the line, he denies having any memory of such a call, and advises her not to dwell on it.

Back in the present, Mike confronts her about calling the Philadelphia cops. Upset, she explains that she made the call after discovering a large amount of mysterious cash hidden in the lining of a suitcase. Thinking Matt must have been involved in something criminal, she begs Mike to tell her the truth about her husband. Mike lashes out in anger exclaiming “My son wasn’t dirty!” before storming out of the house. Mike returns to the house and tells Stacey about everything. He says that he was a dirty cop, the entire precinct was full of dirty cops, but Matt was not one of them. When Hoffman offered Matt a cut of dirty money, he wanted to inform against his partner. Matt called his father to ask him what was the right thing to do, Mike knew that if Matt ratted out on his partner, he would create bad blood between him and the entire precinct, this would've been bad for him, could've even got him killed.
