Tim Roberts
Summary:







							2004
							
						



							2008
							
						


















Tim Roberts

Portrayed by
Nigel Gibbs


Character information

Status
Alive, Active



Social life

Occupation
Detective for the Albuquerque Police Department


Relationships
Hank Schrader (friend and former colleague) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Grilled"
"Hermanos"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Wexler v. Goodman"
"JMM"






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (8)

APD Detective Tim Roberts is a homicide investigator for the Albuquerque Police Department and a colleague of Hank Schrader.

In 2004, Tim discusses the seeming connection between two crimes because of the same car being spotted at both crimes. He says that the man who owns this car is probably the suspect that APD is looking for, which leads them to Lalo Salamanca. ("Wexler v. Goodman")

In 2008, Tim is introduced when he helps investigate Walter White's disappearance, apparently as a favor on his day off for Hank Schrader. He questions Skyler White briefly and asks about a phone call she mentioned, however Hank reveals that there was no record of a phone call indicating that Walt was using a second cell phone. ("Grilled")

In 2009, After Marie is arrested for stealing at an open house, Tim tells her that he has good news and reveals that the homeowners will not press charges. Marie, upset at the resurfacing of her kleptomania, breaks into tears. ("Open House")

Tim discusses with Hank the murder of Gale Boetticher. Hank jokes with Tim about the oddball personality that Gale's notebook evokes: "it's like Scarface had sex with Mr. Rogers." He then identifies Badger and Jesse Pinkman as the only people directly tied to the blue meth that he knows of. Hank admits to having "a history" with Jesse, referring to the savage beat-down he delivered to the young man, but doubts that Jesse murdered Gale. Finding Gale dead, the man he now believes is his Heisenberg, "feels like closure," so he no longer wants to contribute to the investigation. "I feel like I'm done," he apologizes. ("Shotgun")
