Todd Alquist
Summary:




			Main
			
		
			2009
			
		
			2010
			
		
			El Camino
			
		






























Todd Alquist

Portrayed by
Jesse Plemons


Character information

Aliases
Toddy ("Felina")Ricky Hitler ("Buyout")


Status
Deceased


Age
Early 20s


Date of death
September 7, 2010



Social life

Occupation
Fumigator for Vamonos Pest (former)Lab assistant for Walter White (former)Enforcer/Meth Cook for Jack Welker


Residence
Todd's Apartment


Family
Jack Welker (uncle) †


Relationships
Ira (former employer)Walter White (senior meth cook) †Lydia Rodarte-Quayle (employer) †Kenny (second-in-command) †Frankie (friend) †Matt (friend) †Lester (friend) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Hazard Pay"
"Felina"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




——
——






Appearance in El Camino


✔ Yes




Images (69)


Todd Alquist was a methamphetamine cook and former exterminator for Vamonos Pest, and the nephew of Jack Welker. He worked for Walter White, Mike Ehrmantraut, and Jesse Pinkman in their meth manufacturing business. Todd also operated for his uncle Jack's gang and their ally Lydia Rodarte-Quayle until their deaths at the hands of Walt.

Walt and Jesse enlist Todd to help with the heist of a train carrying the methylamine they need to cook. He proves useful until he fatally shoots Drew Sharp, a young boy who accidentally witnessed the robbery. Todd defended his actions, claiming they couldn't leave any witnesses alive. While Walt seemed to accept Todd's callous rationale, Mike and Jesse were disgusted and angry. The group voted to let Todd stay on, but it was the beginning of the end of their partnership.

When Jesse and Mike decided to quit the meth business, Walt brought Todd on as his new assistant. After Walt kills Mike, Todd truly earned his place at Walt's right hand when he helped dispose of Mike's body and introduced Walt to his prison-connected uncle, Jack Welker. Walt hired Jack and his gang to execute all of the imprisoned former members of Gus' Drug Empire, getting rid of any loose ends that might lead the DEA back to Walt. After Jack and his gang kill Hank Schrader and Steven Gomez, Todd recommends keeping Jesse alive so he can cook meth for them, and Jack agrees. Todd and his gang take Jesse back to their compound, where he remained as their slave cook for several months. When Jesse attempted to escape, Todd punished him by executing his former girlfriend Andrea Cantillo.

After Walt returns from hiding in New Hampshire, he attempts to propose a new deal with Lydia and Todd to produce meth with a new formula to which Lydia feigns agreement and instead orders for Walt to be murdered. Before they are able to kill him however, the entire gang is wiped out when Walt activated an M60 machine gun he placed in the trunk of his car, killing most of the gang. While Todd initially survived the attack, he was ultimately killed by Jesse for revenge for his torture and to avenge Todd's murders of Drew Sharp and Andrea Cantillo.
