Tuco Salamanca
Summary:




			Main
			
		
			2002
			
		
			2008
			
		























Tuco Salamanca

Portrayed by
Raymond Cruz


Character information

Full name
Tuco Salamanca


Status
Deceased


Age
Mid to Late 30's or Early 40’s


Date of death
November 8, 2008



Social life

Occupation
Juárez Cartel Distributor


Residence
Abuelita's House


Family
Abuelita (grandmother)Hector Salamanca (uncle) †Marco and Leonel Salamanca (cousins) †Lalo Salamanca (cousin)Joaquin Salamanca (first cousin once removed) †Gonzo (brother-in-law) †


Relationships
No-Doze (lieutenant) †Nacho Varga (former lieutenant)Unnamed Girlfriend




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"Grilled"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




"Uno"
"Gloves Off"






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (67)


Tuco Salamanca was a psychotic, high-ranking Mexican drug dealer who ran the Juárez Cartel's meth operation in Albuquerque. He would briefly become Walter White and Jesse Pinkman's meth distributor. He was the grandson of Abuelita and nephew of Don Hector Salamanca, one of the most powerful members of the cartel. Tuco also had four cousins involved in criminal activities: Lalo, Marco, Leonel and Joaquin Salamanca.

Ruthless, unpredictable, and prone to violent outbursts, Tuco nevertheless respected Walter because of his superior product, intelligence, business style, and guts.

After beating his associate, No-Doze, to death for disrespecting him in front of Walt and Jesse and following the death of his lieutenant Gonzo, Tuco would be forced to go on the run from the DEA. He personally kidnapped Walt and Jesse in order to bring them to Mexico with him to cook and produce their superior meth for the Cartel. However the two were able to injure him and escape and ultimately Tuco was killed after a shootout with DEA agent Hank Schrader, Walt's brother-in-law.

Tuco was born in Mexico and was raised by his uncle Hector, alongside his cousins Lalo, Marco and Leonel, and Joaquin as a member of the Juárez Cartel. Tuco eventually traveled to Albuquerque, New Mexico and worked alongside is uncle at his drug distribution business. He employed No-Doze, his brother-in-law Gonzo and Nacho Varga as his closet associates and lieutenants and employed a number of street-level dealers, including Domingo Molina.
