Walter White Jr.
Summary:







							Main
							
						



							2008
							
						



							2009
							
						



							2010
							
						
































Walter White Jr.

Portrayed by
RJ Mitte


Character information

Full name
Walter Hartwell White Jr.


Aliases
Flynn JuniorEmo McGee ("Dead Freight")


Status
Alive


Age
17 ("Felina")


Date of birth
July 8, 1993



Social life

Occupation
Student at J. P. Wynne High School


Residence
The White Residence (former)Schrader Residence (former)Skyler's Apartment


Family
Walter White (father) †Skyler White (mother)Holly White (sister)Hank Schrader (uncle) †Marie Schrader (aunt)Mr. White Sr. (paternal grandfather) †Mrs. White (paternal grandmother)


Relationships
Louis Corbett (best friend)Soren (friend)




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Pilot"
"Felina"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




——
——






Appearance in El Camino


✘ No




Images (123)


Walter Hartwell "Flynn" White Jr. is Walter and Skyler's seventeen year-old son, and the older brother of Holly. He attends J. P. Wynne High School, where his father used to work as a high school chemistry teacher.

Walter Jr was born with cerebral palsy, manifested in speech difficulties and impaired motor control, for which he uses crutches. He grows apart from Walt due to his father's absences and bizarre behavior, being taught to drive, for the most part, by his friends and going through a phase in which he preferred to be called "Flynn."

In an effort to help his father pay for cancer treatment, Walter Jr. sets up the website, "www.savewalterwhite.com", asking for donations through PayPal. In order to launder Walt's drug profits, Walt's lawyer, Saul Goodman, arranges for a wave of donations drawn from Walt's drug money to go into the website. When Skyler and Walt were separated due to Walt's deceptions, Walter Jr. ultimately takes his father's side, stops answering to the name Flynn, and becomes angry at his mother.

Always being "late to the game", Walter Jr. remains oblivious to his father's drug trade life until Marie, confident that Walt is in Hank's custody, forces Skyler to reveal the whole truth to her son. Upon learning of his father's connection with Hank's death, Walter Jr. mistakenly concludes that Walt killed Hank. 
