Walter White
Summary:




			Main
			
		
			1985
			
		
			1993
			
		
			1998
			
		
			2008
			
		
			2009
			
		
			2010
			
		



















































Walter White

Portrayed by
Bryan Cranston


Character information

Full name
Walter Hartwell White Sr.


Aliases
WaltHeisenbergMr. WhiteWalt Jackson ("Negro y Azul")Mr. Mayhew ("Better Call Saul")Grandpa Anus ("Abiquiú")Mr. Lambert ("Granite State")David Lynn ("Felina")


Status
Deceased[1]


Age
50 ("Pilot")51 ("Fifty-One")52 ("Felina")


Date of birth
September 7, 1958


Date of death
September 7, 2010



Social life

Occupation
Co-Founder, Gray Matter TechnologiesChemist, Sandia LaboratoriesChemistry Teacher, J. P. Wynne High School (former)Crystal Meth Manufacturer (former)Drug Kingpin (former)Co-Owner, A1A Car Wash (former)Co-Owner, Vamonos Pest (former)


Residence
The White Residence (former)Walt's apartment #1 (former)Walt's apartment #2 (former)Walt's New Hampshire Cabin (former)


Family
Skyler White (widow)Walter White Jr. (son)Holly White (daughter)Hank Schrader (brother-in-law) †Marie Schrader (sister-in-law)Mr. White Sr. (father) †Mrs. White (mother)


Relationships
Bogdan Wolynetz (former employer in the car wash)Carmen Molina (former employer in school)Jesse Pinkman (former student, former meth cook partner, former business partner)Elliott Schwartz (former colleague)Gretchen Schwartz (former colleague and girlfriend)Tuco Salamanca (former meth distributor) †Saul Goodman (former lawyer)Gustavo Fring (former employer in meth trade) †Gale Boetticher (former meth cook assistant) †Mike Ehrmantraut (former meth distributor and business partner) †Lydia Rodarte-Quayle (former meth distributor) †Todd Alquist (former meth cook assistant) †




Appearances in Breaking Bad


First 
Last 




"Pilot"
"Felina"






Appearances in Better Call Saul


First 
Last 




——
——






Appearance in El Camino


✔ Yes




Images (1,048) / Videos (4)


Walter Hartwell "Walt" White Sr., also known by his clandestine pseudonym "Heisenberg", was an American drug kingpin. A former chemist and high school chemistry teacher in Albuquerque, New Mexico, he started manufacturing crystal methamphetamine after being diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, in order to pay for his treatments and secure his family's financial future.

In graduate school, Walt contributed to research that would win the 1984 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. After getting his degree, he co-founded the company Gray Matter Technologies with his friend Elliott Schwartz and his then-girlfriend Gretchen. Walt abruptly left the company and sold his financial interest for $5,000. Gretchen and Elliot later married and made a fortune when the company went public. Walt resents Elliot and Gretchen for profiting from his work without crediting him. He took up a job as a chemistry teacher at the local high school, but his payment ended up being low to the point where he took up a second job at the car wash, but this did not help his financial woes. Eventually, after he's been diagnosed with lung cancer, he decided to be a drug dealer after seeing how lucrative it is.

Knowing nothing about the drug trade, he enlists the aid of his former student, Jesse Pinkman, to manufacture and, more importantly, sell his meth. Walt's scientific knowledge and dedication to quality lead him to produce crystal meth of unrivaled purity. Walt eventually devised an alternative chemical process utilizing methylamine, giving his product a distinctive blue color. His crystal meth, christened "blue sky" by dealers and users alike, instantly began to dominate the market. While Walt was initially squeamish about the use of violence, he gradually came to see it as a necessity and eventually developed into a ruthless drug lord motivated largely by vanity, ego, and greed. Not only does Walt become more sinister throughout the series, but he rises in power. At the beginning of his new career, he and Jesse make mere thousands of dollars street dealing, and are constantly met with failure, but later on, Walt becomes a millionaire drug lord that supplies crystal meth all across the American Southwest and as far as Eastern Europe. He achieved this by killing Gustavo Fring, establishing his own drug empire, and then going into partnership with Lydia Rodarte-Quayle and a neo-Nazi gang.

After accumulating an $80 million fortune, Walter finally decided to retire from the drug business permanently. However, his brother-in-law Hank eventually discovered his criminal secrets and embarked on a mission to bring White down. After aligning himself with Jesse (who betrayed Walt after learning of his poisoning of Brock), Hank nearly succeeded in bringing Walt to justice, however he was saved at the last minute by Jack, Todd ,and their neo-Nazi gang who killed both Hank and Steven Gomez and took Jesse hostage. After being turned on by his entire family, Walt was forced to go into hiding in New Hampshire with the help of Ed and would remain in hiding for months. Eventually, he returned to Albuquerque and left his remaining millions to his family. Following that, he personally confronted and killed Jack and his crew. After setting Jesse free, he died from a gunshot wound sustained during his own attack.
